All right, guys.
So in the last video we did the header, the nav bar, basically the landing part of the website on
the index page.
Now we're going to continue with the index page.
And I also have a tab with the finished product just to see what we're going to be getting at.
Now, the way I'm going to format this is each page is going to have sections.
So the sections I'm going to give an idea of the page name and then a BCD and so on.
And the reason for that is you might end up changing the content.
So I don't want to call this like section specialized or something like that.
I'm going to call this section home.
A This will be home B, this will be home C and then this will be the footer on the about page, you'll
have about A, about B, about C and so on.
So let's go ahead and move on to this right here.
This specialize in part.
So I'm going to jump into index.html and let's go ahead and put a comment in here and we'll just say
section A and we can put what it is in the comment because that's always easy to change.
So we'll do specialize.
So let's do section with an ID of section.
I'm sorry, not section home because we want to because we don't want to have section A on the home
page and then section A on the about page.
So we're going to do home A and let's also.
Yeah.
Let's do this now.
So I'm going to give this a couple of utility classes.
Now, we already have a text center utility class because I want everything centered.
I'm also going to create some padding classes as we've done before.
I want py meaning padding on the top and bottom too.
So we'll, we'll add, we'll create that class later on, but let's just finish the markup for now.
So pretty much every section is going to have a container.
We want to move everything to the middle.
Let's do an H two and we're going to have a class of section dash title and we'll say, I specialize
in and underneath the H two, we're going to just have a class of bottom dash line.
And just to show you what that's going to look like, it's going to be this right here.
So we can use that around the site under the bottom line.
Let's do a paragraph with the class of lead.
And in here we're going to say so we're saying I specialize in and then we'll say, uh, photography
as well as creating digital masterpieces.
I might misspell some stuff here, guys, but I really don't care.
So in UI UX layouts for websites, for websites and mobile applications, we'll be a bit more descriptive
than some of our other projects where we just use just alarm ipsum.
So underneath the paragraph we're going to have a class of specials
and inside here we're going to have some divs and we're going to be using the grid for this as well.
So each div is going to have an icon.
So let's put an icon here, let's do a face.
And then we want a class of F, a dash file, dash alt.
That's the icon we want to use.
And then if we want to make an icon bigger font awesome have has classes for that, we're going to do
F dash to X.
So that's our icon.
Then we're going to put an H three and this is going to be concept and then a paragraph.
And I believe I did form 20.
It should be right.
And then what we'll do is just copy this whole div and we want four of these.
So we've got one, two, three, four and then I'm just going to change the second one here.
Let's do instead of this file all let's do f a dash desktop and the heading is going to be UI, dash
UX.
And then this third one here will be F a dash object dash UN group.
These are just icons I found on font.
Awesome.
And then this is going to be visual design and then this last one here is going to be thumbs up.
So thumbs dash up and the heading for this is going to be interaction.
So that is section A.
And if we take a look at it, our version, it looks like this, which looks pretty crappy.
So we're going to add the CSS for this.
So let's jump into VS code.
And before I start with the specific styles here, let's go to our utilities and let's add in, let's
create our padding classes.
All right.
So for padding, I want to have padding on the top and bottom.
So we're going to use the PY so we can actually just do class.
PY And then for each one we can do like ampersand dash one, which will be p-1 and I'm going to set
the padding to let's do one REM, top and bottom zero REM left and right.
And then we can just basically just copy this down.
Let's do four of them.
So one, two, three and four.
Second one will be two.
We'll just do two, three, REM, four, REM.
All right.
So if I save that and we take a look, we should have some padding here.
Let's check it out.
Looks like we do, but let's make sure.
So, yeah, we can see the padding in the green.
And if and if you guys want to extend it a little more, if you want to use P three instead, anything
like that, feel free to do that.
Now while we're at it, we might as well add some margin classes like this.
And I mean, if you want to put it all on one line, like if you want to do that to clean it up, you
might you can do that.
But if you use prettier and you save by default, it's going to format it like this just to let you
know.
So let's do margin.
This will be my and then we're just going to change these for to margin.
So that should be good.
Let's save that.
And now let's go back to our main file because now we want to target the actual home a ID.
All right.
So for the home styles, let's put a comment in here.
Let's just say home sections.
So we have ID home and let's do ampersand a which will target home dash A Now I'm going to target the
specials class and like I said, I want to use the grid.
I'm actually going to add a little bit of margin to the top, though.
So let's do margin top.
We'll do three REM and let's do display grid OC.
We're going to add a grid gap of one REM and let's do our grid column.
So grid dash.
Uh, grid dash template columns.
And I'm just going to do a repeat and let's say repeat four times one fraction.
So we'll have four even columns.
And then the icon I actually want to make the main color.
So inside specials, we're going to grab the class of FE.
What is it, Fe?
S because each icon has a class of face.
So let's grab on to that and let's set the color to the main color.
All right.
And then I'm just going to add a padding bottom of 0.4 REM.
So let's take a look at that.
And that looks pretty good.
So we set this this is the div with the class of specials.
We set that to be a grid and we set template columns of repeat for one FR so they're all even.
And then we have a grid gap of one REM in between and we change the icon colors.
So let's move on to the section B, which is this part here.
So we'll jump back into our index HTML and let's go under the last section here and let's put a comment.
We'll say section B, which is basically stats, so the awards and stuff like that.
So we're going to do section with the class of home, dash B, let's do some utility classes.
So text center and let's let's also do py2.
So padding on the top and bottom.
And then I'm going to have a class of stats.
We're also going to use the grid here and let's do a div.
So each div is going to have a UL and the first list item here is going to be an icon.
So let's do an I, I tag with the class of face and I'm going to do f a dash users and then let's do
an ly with the class of stats dash title and we're going to do clients and then let's do an ly with
the class of stats.
Dash number and I'm going to say 100.
All right.
And then I'm just going to copy this div and we're going to have four of these as well.
So two, three, four, I'm going to save.
And then let's go and change the second one from starting with the icon.
We're going to do a award.
Oh, one thing I forgot is I want to make these icons bigger.
So we want to add a-3x for all of these.
So let's just do that.
And then we have Fay Award.
Let's change this to awards.
And let's say that this user or this developer has three awards.
Okay.
Next one is going to be ours.
Work so far.
Dash our hourglass.
Dash start.
I'll say hours worked and let's do 3500.
It's just a random number.
I don't know if that's a lot or a little or what.
And then this icon here is going to be a code dash branch and you can find all these in the font awesome
website.
And then this is going to be projects completed and let's do 135.
So we'll save that.
Let's see what it looks like without CSIS.
So it looks absolutely horrible.
So now let's go back to Main CSIS, and now we're going to deal with with the Section B, so just like
we did here.
So this ends right here, we're going to do ampersand, dash B and if you want to put comments here
home section B, go up here and say Home Section A.
So I mean, you know, certain people might like this way of doing it.
You might not.
But it's all preference.
I'm just giving you guys the option.
So let's take the stats that are in section B, class of stats, and let's display a grid and let's
do our grid dash template dash columns.
And say repeat four one FR and you could even create functions.
If you're seeing the same type of patterns, you could even shorten this up a little more, create functions,
extend styles, things like that.
So if you want to make this this project even better, I invite you to to do that.
So let's take the list items and I'm going to do a line height of two for each list item.
All right.
And then remember, some of the list items have class names such as stats titles.
So I'm going to take this the list item with the class of stats dash title and let's set the font size
to 1.5 REM.
And then we also have stats number.
So let's say the list item with the class of stats.
Dash number.
And let's set the font size here to to REM and let's set the font weight to bold.
Now, if we save that and we take a look, this is what it looks like.
Oh, you know what I think?
I forgot the container.
Actually.
No, we don't want to contain her if we look at this.
Yeah.
We don't want this bound inside the container.
That's right.
It'll look better once we add the colors in the background.
Now, for the colors, we're going to use any child odd and child even because we want light gray,
dark gray, light gray.
So remember, these are all divs.
So we'll target.
Let's see.
We want to go outside of no, we want to be within stats, but we want to go outside of the lie which
ends right here.
So right here, let's say div.
So for each div I'm actually going to give it some padding.
Let's do three REM, top and bottom and then we want to grab the nth child odd.
And even so we'll do Ampersand Colon and we want the nth child pseudo selector.
We want to grab the odds and let's set the background.
To the light color variable, and then we'll take the evens.
I'll just grab this and we'll say even.
And we're going to set that to the medium color.
All right.
Let's take a look and there we go.
So that looks pretty good.
So again, we have a grid with four columns and we're going to do the responsiveness later on for for
smartphones and stuff like that.
All right.
So I think I'm going to stop here in the next video.
We're going to get to this part where it's a little tricky.
We have our icons and then we have this positioned in a way.
So it kind of overlaps it.
We have a transition, so we'll do that and also the footer in the next video.